# TicTac Game Server and Registry

## Background

The central part to playing Tictac is staring a GameServer and inteacting with it. 
The game server holds the state of an individual game. Players send messages to the GameServer
and it acts as the "source of truth" for the game state and the result of a player's moves.

## Starting a Server

The system uses a 4 letter game code to uniquely identify a temporary, running game server.
A game code is easily generated. Using the game code, a server's PID can be found.

```elixir
alias Tictac.GameServer
{:ok, game_code} = GameServer.generate_game_code()
```

In order to start a new game, a player struct is needed. This creates a new game 
using the generated `game_code` and creates the initial player at the same time.

```elixir
alias Tictac.Player
{:ok, player_1} = Player.create(%{name: "Tom"})
{:ok, _status} = GameServer.start_or_join(game_code, player_1)
```

Internally, the `Horde.Registry` is used to provide a distributed registry of game's 
linked to their `game_code` names. Normal Registry works great, but isn't distributed.
The registry keys and PIDs are only available on the one machine in the cluster
where the registry is running.

The reason this doesn't use something like `:pg2` or `:pg` (aka Process Groups) is because those 
don't enable tracking metadata with the process. They are also setup more for managing a 
set of processes under a single name or grouping. So it doesn't make sense to use that 
for tracking our games. Horde.Registry work well for this.

Using the registry, we can lookup if a game with the given name is found.

```elixir
Horde.Registry.lookup(Tictac.GameRegistry, game_code)
```

A helpful API is setup that uses this registry check to see if a game_code is currently in use.

```elixir
GameServer.server_found?(game_code)
```

## Joining a Server

Once a game is created, another player joins it to play. Using the same game_code, 
a player is able "join" the already running server.

```elixir
{:ok, player_2} = Player.create(%{name: "Jill"})
{:ok, _status} = GameServer.start_or_join(game_code, player_2)
```

Once 2 players are in the server, the game is started.

## Playing a Game

When changes to the game state are made, they are broadcast out on PubSub. This is how the LiveView
is updated.

If a player get's disconnected and reconnects, their LiveView can request the current game state.

The LiveView tracks the player_id and the game_code they are connected to. Moves are made using the 
that information. So let's get the player's IDs attached to the game.

```elixir
GameServer.get_current_game_state(game_code)
```

Players can make moves until the game ends. If a game is left abandoned, it shuts itself down after a 
being left alone for a period of time.

The player makes a move and selects the game board square they want to claim. The column names use 
Row/Col numbering. So `sq11` is row 1 column 1 and `sq31` is row 3 column 1.

| Col 1 | Col 2 | Col 3 |
| ----- | :---: | ----: |
| sq11  | sq12  | sq13  |
| sq21  | sq22  | sq23  |
| sq31  | sq32  | sq33  |

```elixir
GameServer.move(game_code, player_1.id, :sq11)
```

Remember, the game state is sent out after each move to both players via PubSub. 
So the GenServer doesn't really return anything when the move is valid. If an 
invalid move is tried then it returns an error message.

Like if player 2 tries to go in the same spot as the square claimed by player_1, this is what happens.

```elixir
GameServer.move(game_code, player_2.id, :sq11)
```

```elixir
GameServer.move(game_code, player_2.id, :sq12)
```

```elixir
GameServer.move(game_code, player_1.id, :sq21)
```

```elixir
GameServer.move(game_code, player_2.id, :sq22)
```

```elixir
GameServer.move(game_code, player_1.id, :sq31)
```

At this point the game is over. Player 1 won. We can check the state.

```elixir
game_state = GameServer.get_current_game_state(game_code)
```

```elixir
Tictac.GameState.result(game_state)
```
