# TicTac GameState

## Explanation

The heart of the Tictac app is the `%Tictac.GameState{}` struct and module.
It defines the data structure and the functions for manipulating the game state. 
The struct is used by a GenServer to model and manage state changes to a running game.

When a game is created, it is given a name or code to identify it. A game is created 
by a player, so it starts with one initial player. Before the game can start, a 
second player must join.

This walks through a game setup, showing behavior with game moves, how the states 
change, and finally when a game ends.

## Setup

Create the players and setup the GameState.

Start by first creating two players that we'll use to create a game and have the 2nd 
player join the game.

```elixir
{:ok, player_1} = Tictac.Player.create(%{name: "Tom"})
{:ok, player_2} = Tictac.Player.create(%{name: "John"})
nil
```

When a player is created, they don't yet have a "letter" assigned. That get's assigned once they've joined the game.

```elixir
alias Tictac.GameState
game = GameState.new("ABCD", player_1)
```

Once a game is created, the status is `:not_started`. It's waiting for another player to join and officiall start the game.

```elixir
game.status
```

When the 2nd player joins, we still are in a `:not_started` state until the game is 
explicitly started.

```elixir
{:ok, game} = GameState.join_game(game, player_2)
```

```elixir
game.status
```

When the game starts, the `player_turn` is assigned. According to the official rules, "O" always starts first.

We will now be in a `:playing` state.

```elixir
{:ok, game} = GameState.start(game)
```

```elixir
game.status
```

## Making a Move

We want to get a reference to the players attached to the game. These player structs have the "letters" assigned for each player. They may be playing as "X" or "O".

```elixir
[player_1, player_2] = game.players
```

The game is now in `:playing` mode. Players can make moves on their turns.

Demonstrates how a game is played and some of the operations that are supported.

As moves are made, you can see the `:board` squares get claimed.

```elixir
{:ok, game} = GameState.move(game, player_1, :sq11)
```

Let's make a bunch of moves together and see the result.

```elixir
{:ok, game} =
  game
  |> GameState.move(player_2, :sq22)
  |> GameState.move(player_1, :sq33)
  |> GameState.move(player_2, :sq31)
  |> GameState.move(player_1, :sq13)
  |> GameState.move(player_2, :sq12)
  |> GameState.move(player_1, :sq23)
```

## Game Over

After the turns are complete and a player has won, the status reflects that the game is over.
We can test for who the winner is as well. Once the game is concluded, no more moves are allowed.

```elixir
game.status
```

Calling `GameState.result/1` returns the winning player, `:playing` if the game is still going, or `:draw` depending on the result.

```elixir
GameState.result(game)
```
